---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Becoming a Software Engineer
date: 2017-01-20
labels:
  - Software engineering
---

## The Beginning ##
My journey to becoming a software engineer started with my passion for gaming.  As I'd go through a level of Crash Bandicoot or Super Mario 64, I would always think about how an entire world could exist within a CD or a game cartridge.  I dreamed of one day being able to create my own world within virtual space and allowing other people to explore my creation.  My passion for working with computers sparked from there, and I decided that I would go into the field of computer science.  However, it wasn't until my freshman year of college that I truly experienced programming.  I quickly realized that programming had so many uses and applications outside of making software and video games.  I felt that computer science had opened up a door for me, to explore all the different challenges that I can face using programming.

#
In everyday life you will see code being used. Be it in someones phone, to the traffic lights, and even in someones body in the case of a pacemaker. Software in general is used so much that it would seem foolish not to know the basics of how it is created and how it works. With this knowledge I hope to be able to better prepare myself for a world that is centered around programming and code.

Currently I do not have much in the way of skills for software engineering. I have programmed small things that range from using C to Java but I have never used more popular languages like javescript and Python. I have had some experience in HTML and CSS however due to smaller projects like designing web pages and making web applications the fufil small tasks. Nothing in the way of anything large however.

From this course I hope to get a better understanding of javascript and its application to large web applications. I also wish to get a better understanding on how to use javascript to combine premade large scale applications like google calender to other smaller aplications. Also I would like to increase the size of my public persona in a professional and accurate way.
